- [A Simple Fix of HTTP Caching on Single Page Applications](#a-simple-fix-of-http-caching-on-single-page-applications)
  - [Bug Root](#bug-root)
  - [Background Introduction](#background-introduction)
    - [Cache Headers](#cache-headers)
      - [`Expires`](#expires)
      - [Cache-Control](#cache-control)
        - [Main Directives](#main-directives)
        - [Dive in to `no-cache` - Revalidation](#dive-in-to-no-cache---revalidation)
          - [Last-Modified <day-name>, <date> <month> <year> <hour>:<minute>:<second> GMT](#last-modified-day-name-date-month-year-hourminutesecond-gmt)
          - [ETag <string-id>](#etag-string-id)
      - [Common Caching Strategy](#common-caching-strategy)

# A Simple Fix of HTTP Caching on Single Page Applications

## Bug Root

By default, mordern browsers stores your first-time downloaded resources, like html files, stylesheets, or scripts, so that when you visit next time, it can speeding things up a lot faster by skipping the connection between browser and web server.

Here comes the bug, assume that the web application has already been deployed and browsers hits the page recently (browser cached resources not expired), if you change the files on the web server at a short period after, like an upgrade for instance, **user cannot visit the new content, as long as the browser caching is not expired**

## Background Introduction

> Getting caching right yields huge performance benefits, saves bandwidth, and reduces server costs, but many sites half-arse their caching, creating race conditions resulting in interdependent resources getting out of sync. - jakearchibald

### Cache Headers

#### `Expires`

The `Expires` header contains the date/time after which the response is considered slate/expired. -> _`Expires` only exists on the HTTP Response header._

Exp: `Expires: Fri Jul 30 2021 20:25:10 GMT+0800`

**`Cache-Control` header with the `max-age` or `s-maxage` set will makes the Expires header ignored.**

#### Cache-Control

`Cache-Control` header exists on both requests and responses, and these two aren't always the same content.

Caching directives have some ground rules to be valid:

- Case-insensitive, but lower-kebab-case is recommended.
- Multiple directives are comma-seperated
- Some directives have an optional argument, which can be either a token or a qupted-string.

##### Main Directives

1. `no-cache`: The name can be misunderstood, but it actually means that no direct loading resources from local disk or memory, forcing browser to check for file/cache freshness, if no change on the server then uses data from cache, avoid same resources repeatly downloading.
2. `no-store`: Indicates the content can not and will not be cached in any way by any primary or intermediate cache. **This directive is mutually exclusive with `no-cache`.**
3. `public`: With this set, the content can be stored by any cache. **This directive is mutually exclusive with `private`, when both set, `public` trumps**
4. `private`: This directives tells you that only the browser that requested the content can store the content, not any other intermmediate.
5. `max-age=<seconds>`: The maximum amount of time a resource is considered fresh, and needs to update, this directive is related to the time of the request. The maximum valid value is one year (31536000 seconds) **Again, when this directive set, it will overwrite the `Expires`**
6. `s-maxage`: similar to `max-age`, but only valid for `public` (shared resources) cache.

##### Dive in to `no-cache` - Revalidation

###### Last-Modified <day-name>, <date> <month> <year> <hour>:<minute>:<second> GMT

Indicates the resource was last-modified datetime in the origin server (which can be manully altered).

> **HTTP dates are always expressed in GMT, never in local time.**

###### ETag <string-id>

ETag (entity tag) is an identifier for a specific version of a resource. Clients uses this to make conditional requests (whether to request for fresher resources or load it from local cache, like dist or memory).

ETag allows browsers to make more efficient and cost-less choices, release server stree and save bandwidth, returns `304 Not Modified` only if the content has not changed.

_ETag can also be used at tracking service, since every new URL request generates a new one._

ETag is carried by every response and request, for server, it's used to compare with the one send by clients, to decide whether it should send a new copy; for clients, once the response arrive, ETag is used to decide wheter to update cache.

#### Common Caching Strategy

1. Preventing caching: `Cache-Control: no-store, max-age=0`;
2. Caching static assets: `Cache-Control: public, max-age=31536000, immutable` (`immutable` is an extension implemented by browsers, means the response body **will not change** over time.);
3. Requiring revalidation: `Cache-Control: no-cache` which equivalent to `Cache-Control: must-revalidate, max-age=0` (`must-revalidate` means if the cache lifespan is longer then max-age, then revalidate, otherwise use cache.);
