# Web Responsive Layout Based on Flexbox - Imperfection Auto Height

## Bug Root

Nowadays, web developers usually uses `display: flex;` as the responsive web design solution... For example:

<iframe src="./examples/20210716.html" style="width: 400px; height: 600px; overflow: auto; resize: both;"></iframe>

As you can see, the height of main element is fixed once its height was 'grow' out of the original box...

**This is not an actual bug**, it's just what the CSS set, and how the flex action designed to behave, so let's take a deeper look into flexbox and its principal.

Element-plus also uses flex to set table height, which can be a problem.

## Background Description

### `flex-direction`

Defines the main axis (row or column, x or y) and the direction (normal or reversed), and also the **the main spaces(when row as main axis is width, and column as main axis is height)**.

### `flex-wrap`

Sets whether flex items are forced onto one line or can wrap onto multiple lines.

### `flex-flow`

Shorthand for `flex-direction` and `flex-wrap`

### `flex-grow`

Negative values are invalid, defaults to 0, this property specifies how much of the remaining space in the flex container should be assigned to the item.

It's not a calcurate unit, but some kind of a factor. If all siblings items have the same value, then all items will receive the same share of remaining space, otherwise it is distributed according to the ratio defined by the different flex grow factors.

> Flex values between 0 and 1 have a somewhat special behavior: **when the sum of the flex values on the line is less then 1, they will take up less than 100% of the free space**.

### `flex-shrink`

Negative values are invalid, defaults to 1, this property specifies how the item to shrink, when the size of all flex items is larger than the flex container.

It's in a oppsite behavior of `flex-grow`.

> The `flex-shrink` factor is multiplied by the flex base size when distributing negative space. This distributes negative space in proportion to how much the item is able to shrink, so that e.g. **a small item won't shrink to zero before a larger item has been noticeably reduced**.

### `flex-basis`

Defines the initial main size of a flex item. It sets the size of the content box unless otherwise with box-sizing.

Relatively speaking, if `flex-basis` >= content width/height, then it's the start point of `flex-grow`, the end point of `flex-shrink`; if `flex-basis` <= content width/height, then the start/end point of `flex-grow/flex-shrink` is content width/height

### `flex`

> The `flex` CSS shorthand property sets how a flex item will grow or shrink to fit the space available in its flex container.

#### Basic Values of 'flex'

Value format: none | [<flex-grow><flex-shrink>?||<flex-basis>]

| Shorthand                 | Equivalent to                 |
| ------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| `flex: initial;`          | `flex: 0 1 auto`              |
| `flex: auto;`             | `flex: 1 1 auto;`             |
| `flex: none;`             | `flex: 0 0 auto`              |
| `flex: <positive-number>` | `flex: <positive-number> 1 0` |

_`flex: 0 0;` means that the flex item is fully inflexible_

**By default, flex items won't shrink below their minimun content size(the length of the longest word or fixed-size element).**

**Set the `min-width` or `min-height`, can change the element minimum size**

## Bug Analyze

So there it is, once the window resize to a larger box, the growing flex item width/height set by JavaScript is considered as a temperate fixed value and can not shrink to its original size..

To fix this, uses min-width/min-height or set flex-basis, or you can also go big to use ResizeObserver to reset the width/height.
